(drumroll)
(rousing orchestral
fanfare playing)
(RALPH screechily singing
with fanfare)
(fanfare ends)
(low, pulsating rumble)
(indistinct radio chatter)
(Theme from
2001: A Space Odyssey playing)
(orchestra crescendoes)
(percussion booming)
We come in peace for cats
and mice everywhere.
(screaming)
(glass breaks, air hissing)
(popping)
(laughing)
♪ ♪
(orchestral fanfare playing)
-(crowd cheering)
-Hey, how you doing?
Good to see ya.
Thanks for coming out.
("Hail to the Chief" playing)
♪ ♪
SCRATCHY (calling in distance):
Itchy... Itchy...
(air horn blasts)
(quiet, ominous music plays)
(orchestral music grows louder)
(snaps fingers)
♪ ♪
(click)
(mechanical whirring)
(music crescendoes)
(loud buzzing)
(missiles rumbling)
(missiles whizzing through air)
(screaming)
(missile whizzing)
(mechanical ratcheting)
(metallic clunk)
(loud explosion)
Boring!
LISA: Dad, we can't
see the movie!
I can't believe we're
paying to see something
we get on TV for free.
If you ask me, everybody in
this theater is a giant sucker,
especially you!
CHOIR:
♪ The Simpsons ♪
PROFESSOR FRINK:
♪ Movie, on the big screen ♪
(theme playing)
(creaking, thud)
♪ ♪
(pen squeaks)
(MARTIN howling)
(rock band joins in
on The Simpsons theme)
(crowd cheering)
(strained grunting)
Excuse me,
my heinie is dipping.
-(others groan in disgust)
-(loud thud, grunt)
♪ Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! ♪
♪ Hey! Hey! ♪
(to The Simpsons theme):
♪ Da, da, da, da-da, da, da ♪
♪ Da, da-da-da-da ♪
CROWD:
♪ Da-da-da-da-da ♪
♪ Da-da-da-da! ♪
(song ends, cheering)
All right, well,
thanks a lot for coming.
We've been playing
for three and a half hours.
Now we'd like
just a minute of your time
to say something
about the environment!
(crowd quiets,
crickets chirping)
-(loud booing)
-You suck!
-Shut up and play!
-Preachy!
We're not being preachy.
But the pollution
in your lake,
it's dissolving our barge!
(crowd booing)
I thought they touched
on a vital issue.
I beg to differ.
(grunts)
(screechy gasp)
Gentlemen, it's been an honor
playing with you tonight.
(playing "Nearer My God to Thee")
(organ playing "American Idiot")
For the latest rock band
to die in our town,
Lord, hear our prayer.
CONGREGATION:
(car screeches to a halt)
MARGE:
I hate being late.
HOMER:
Well, I hate going.
Why can't I worship the Lord
in my own way--
by praying like hell
on my deathbed.
MARGE: Homer, they can
hear you inside.
HOMER:
Relax. Those pious morons
are too busy talking
to their phony-baloney God.
(quietly):
How you doing?
Peace be with you.
Praise Jebus.
(snoring)
(organ playing quietly)
(video game beeping)
-(video game gunfire)
-BABY: Ga-ga, goo... (groaning)
(video game sounds stop)
Now, today I'd like to try
something a little different.
I'm going to call on one of you!
(man yelps)
(chuckles): Now, the word of God
dwells within everyone.
I want you to let that word out.
-Let your spirit...
-Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh!
(frustrated sigh)
What is it, Ned?
The good Lord is telling me
to confess to something.
(quietly): Gay, gay,
gay, gay, gay, gay, gay.
An immodest sense of pride
in our community!
Somebody else?
LOVEJOY: Let the Lord's light
shine upon you.
-(heavenly choir singing)
-(snoring)
LOVEJOY:
Feel the spirit. Let it out!
Horrible, horrible things
are going to happen!
And they're gonna happen
to you and you and you!
-And you!
-(gasps)
Whoa, Nelly.
(gasping)
(grunting)
(beep)
People of Springfield,
heed this warning!
Twisted tail!
A thousand eyes!
Trapped forever!
(grunting like Three Stooges)
Dad, do something!
Uh, uh, this book
doesn't have any answers!
Beware, beware!
Time is short!
Epa! Epa!
Epa...!
(loud thud)
Believe me!
Believe me...!
(speaking gibberish)
(continues speaking gibberish)
Thanks for listening.
Okay, who
wants waffles?
GRANDPA/BART/LISA:
I do! I do! I do!
Wait a minute.
What about Grandpa?
-I want syrup.
-I want strawberries!
Something happened
to that man.
I'll tell you what
happened to him.
A certain someone
had a senior moment.
But that's okay,
because we love him
and we got a free
rug out of it.
What is the point of going
to church every Sunday
when if someone we love has
a genuine religious
experience, we ignore it?
Right, Grandpa?
I want bananas
on my waffles!
I rest my case.
I'm not dropping this.
Wait a minute!
I'm still in the car!
Oh, right.
Hmm...
"Take out hornets' nest."
(hornets buzzing)
(frenzied buzzing)
Check.
"Fix sinkhole."
(quiet sucking)
(sucking continues)
(plop)
(sucking stops)
Check.
"Reshingle roof"?
(birds chirping)
Steady...
(loud squish)
Ow-how-how!
-Ow-how-how!
-(laughing)
(continues laughing)
(yells):
Why, you little...
I'll teach you to laugh
at something that's funny!
(exhales): You know,
we are on the roof.
We could have some fun.
What kind of fun?
How about a dare contest?
That sounds fun.
I dare you to...
climb the TV antenna.
Piece of cake.
Earthquake!
(laughing)
(both laughing)
(laughing, gasps)
(grunting)
Aftershock!
(playful grunting,
Bart laughing)
NED: Uh, Homer, I don't mean to
be a nervous Pervis or anything,
but if he falls, couldn't that
make your boy a parapleg-erino?
-Shut up, Flanders.
-Yeah, shut up, Flanders.
Well said, boy.
-Yeah!
Steady... steady...
steady...
(yells, thuds)
(laughing)
(knocking)
LISA: Hello.
Sorry to bother you on a Sunday,
but I'm sure you're
as worried about the pollution
-in Lake Springfield as I am...
-(door slams)
(knocking)
Lake Springfield has higher
levels of mercury than even...
(door slams)
Why, it's the little
girl who saved my cat.
-Lake Springfield...
-(door slams)
(sighs)
(doors slamming)
(dog yelps)
(door slams, bell rings,
ship's horn blows)
(groans):
Oh...
-(door creaks)
-Come on over, Lisa.
You can canvass me
as long as you want.
Milhouse, you don't care
about the environment.
Hey! I am very passionate
about the planet!
Say global warming
is a myth!
It's a myth!
Further study is needed!
(grunts)
That's for selling out
your beliefs!
Oh, poor Milhouse.
-Dream coming true.
-(knocking)
BOY: Are you aware that
a leaky faucet can waste over...
-(door slams)
-2,000 gallons a year.
And turning off your lights
can save...
Enough energy
to power Pittsburgh.
And if we just kept our
thermostats at 68 in the winter...
We'd be free from our dependency
on foreign oil in 17 years!
-I'm Colin.
-(gasps softly)
I haven't seen you at school.
Just moved from Ireland.
My dad's a musician.
-Is he...
-He's not Bono.
I just thought because you're
Irish and you care about...
He's not Bono.
Do you play?
Just piano, guitar,
trumpet, drums and bass.
(thinking):
He's pure gold!
For once in your life, be cool.
So, is your name as
pretty as your face?
Oh!
(screeches):
Ha! Ha!
You okay there?
(gagging)
(choking, giggling)
Twisted tail! A thousand eyes!
Trapped forever!
Epa! Epa!
"Epa." What
could that be?
I believe it's the sound
the Green Lantern made
when Sinestro threw him
into a vat of acid.
Ee-pah!
Yeah.
Uh, thanks
for coming over.
Thanks for giving me
your pregnancy pants.
I've never known
comfort like this.
(elastic slaps)
(BB's pinging, Homer grunting)
D'oh! Oh, why did I--
oh!-- suggest this?
(shrieking):
Oh! Aah!
Ow! Ee!
Aah! Aah!
(continues shrieking)
(timer dings)
All right, boy, time
for the ultimate dare.
I dare you...
to skateboard
to Krusty Burger...
and back...
naked.
How naked?
Fourth base.
But girls might
see my doodle.
(mocking):
Oh, I see.
Then I hereby declare you
"chicken for life."
Every morning you'll wake up
to "Good morning, chicken."
At your wedding, I'll sing,
(clucking "Wedding March")
(surprised cluck)
(surf rock playing)
(people gasp)
♪ ♪
I like men now.
Don't look where
I'm pointing!
♪ ♪
(siren wailing)
(over loudspeaker): Stop in the
name of American squeamishness!
(tires screech, drivers gasping)
Boys, before we eat, don't
forget to thank the Lord
for this bountiful...
Penis!
-Bountiful penis.
Amen.
-(glass squeaking)
-Listen, kid,
nobody likes wearing
clothes in public,
but, you know,
it-it's the law.
Lunchtime!
You can't just
leave me out here.
Don't worry.
We found a friend
for you to play with.
Ha-ha! Ha-ha! Ha-ha!
(hoarsely):
Ha-ha, ha-ha, ha-ha...
Nelson, honey,
where've you been?
Ha-ha! Ha-ha! Ha-ha!
Dad!
What seems to be
the problem, officers?
Tell them you dared me to do it.
If that's true,
then you should be taking
the rap here, not your son.
And... what happens
to me if it's my fault?
You'll have to attend a
one-hour parenting class.
It was all his idea!
He's out of control, I tell you!
I'm at my wit's end!
(sobbing):
It's so...
See you in
court, kid.
Okay, Son,
let's get some lunch.
Did you at least bring
my clothes?
Shirt, socks,
everything you need.
You didn't bring my pants!
Who am I, Tommy Bahama?
(sighs):
Oh...
this is the worst day
of my life.
The worst day
of your life so far.
Say, Bart?
What do you want, Flanders?
If you need pants,
I carry an extra pair.
I mean, you know how boys are,
always praying through the knees.
Why are you helping me?
I'm not your kid.
We're neighbors.
I'm sure your father
would do the same for my boys.
HOMER:
Thank you.
HOMER (chomping):
Mm, mm, mm...
(mumbling)
Hey, what's with you?
You really want to know?
Of course I do.
What kind of a father
wouldn't care about...
a pig wearing a hat!
MAN:
Action.
Hey, hey!
It's your old pal Krusty
for my new pork sandwich,
the Clogger!
If you can find
a greasier sandwich,
you're in Mexico!
(goofy laughing)
Mmm!
MAN:
And we're clear.
Perfect.
Cut, print, kill the pig.
(squealing)
What?! You can't kill him if
he's wearing people clothes.
(squeals)
(squeaks, snorts)
♪ I can't see me ♪
♪ Loving nobody but you... ♪
-You're coming home with me.
-(squeals, snorts)
VIDEO GAME BABY:
Ga-ga, goo... (gagging)
"A thousand eyes."
What could that be?
Hmm, I'm pretty sure
a thousand is a number.
Hey, Marge.
Isn't it great
being married
to someone who's
recklessly impulsive?
Actually, it's
aged me horribly.
Then say hello
to the newest Simpson!
(dramatic music plays)
(gasps)
Homer!
(quiet grunt)
I believe what happened in church
was a warning about precisely this.
Please, get rid
of that pig!
Oh, you're gonna love him.
Look-- he does
an impression of you.
(squeals loudly)
(grunting)
(laughing):
You nailed her.
He also does me.
(belches)
(laughing)
You smiled! I'm off the hook!
Ooh.
(humming)
Oh, you have so many looks.
(pig snorts)
(sighs)
(kissing)
(vacuum whirring)
Hmm, so that's what snug is.
HOMER (playfully):
Who's a good pig?
(blowing raspberries)
NED:
Rough day, huh, son?
You don't know what
rough is, sister.
(chuckles)
Bart, you know,
whenever my boys
bake up a batch of frownies,
I take them fishing.
Does your dad
ever take you fishing?
-(electrical buzzing)
-Dad!
It's not fair to use a bug
zapper to catch the fish.
If you love
fish like I do,
you want them
to die with dignity.
(loud zapping)
(gurgling)
I think I have a nibble.
(screams)
(electrical crackling,
screaming)
(screaming,
electrical crackling)
(electrical crackling,
screaming)
I think fishing
might be more fun with you.
Oh, great.
Now, how 'bout
I fix you some cocoa?
No way, cocoa's
for wusses.
Well, sir, if you change your
mind, it's on the windowsill.
(grunts)
(slurping)
Oh, my God.
Oh, wait. I didn't
tell you the best part.
He loves the environment.
Oh, wait, I still didn't
tell you the best part.
He's got an Irish brogue.
No, no, wait, wait! I still
didn't tell you the best part!
He's not imaginary.
Oh, honey, that's great.
But the very best thing
is that he listens to you.
Because nothing means more
than for a man to...
How did the pig tracks
get on the ceiling?
HOMER:
♪ Spider Pig ♪
♪ Spider Pig, does whatever
a Spider Pig does ♪
♪ Can he swing from a web? ♪
♪ No, he can't, he's a pig ♪
♪ Look out... ♪
♪ He is a Spider Pig. ♪
(ducks quacking)
Are we having fun yet?
We are now.
You've got a bite.
Whoa, mama!
Oh, no, my good pole!
(choking)
Huh? You're not
strangling me.
What the...?
Why, strangling's
only good for...
Well, it's not really
good for anything.
I think the only time you
should lay hands on a boy
is when you're giving him
a good old pat on the back.
Hey, what the hell
are you...?
Oh...
One more time.
(incoherent rambling,
meowing)
-(bottles clinking)
-Honey, I'm home.
(shrieks)
(growls)
(guitar playing sweetly)
LISA: We are at the tipping
point, people.
If we don't do
something now, uh...
I'm sorry, I lost
my train of thought.
Isn't he dreamy?
-Agreed.
-(gavel bangs)
Okay, so here's
the bottom line.
If we don't change
our ways right now,
pollution in Lake
Springfield
-will be at this level.
-(motor whirring)
That's not so bad.
-No, the lift is stuck.
-(gears grinding)
(whirring, grinding)
(crashing)
Am I getting through to anyone?
Hell, yeah!
We need a new one
of those things.
All in favor of a new
scissor lift say aye.
-ALL: Aye!
-No!
This lake is just
one piece of trash away
from a toxic nightmare.
But I knew you wouldn't listen,
so I took the liberty
of pouring water from the lake
in all your drinking glasses.
(spitting, groaning)
MOE: This is why we
should hate kids.
This is serious, people.
No more dumping in the lake.
I hereby declare
a state of emergency.
Code black.
(gasping)
Black?
That's the worst
color there is.
No offense there, Carl.
I get it all the time.
(triumphant orchestration plays)
(sizzling)
(machinery whirring)
Uh, sorry, sorry.
No dumping in the lake.
Fine.
I will put my yard trimmings
in a car compactor.
Uh... Chief, I think there
was a dead body in there.
I thought that, too,
until he said "yard trimmings."
You got to learn to listen, Lou.
Let us now make sure
this barrier
is completely idiot proof.
Cletus.
Yessum?
Try to dump something
in the lake.
Okay.
I can't.
I-I simply can't.
-Brilliant.
-Very effective.
(snorts)
(kissing)
Ayayay!
Un burro amoroso!
Don't get any ideas. Huh?
(both laughing)
Maybe we should kiss
just to break the tension.
What's going on here?
Uh, nothing,
nothing.
I'm not sure that pig
should be in the house.
And by the way,
what are you doing
with his... leavings?
Don't worry.
I've devised a most
elegant solution.
(groans):
Oh, it's leaking.
It's not leaking,
it's overflowing.
He filled up the whole
silo in just two days?
Well, I helped.
Homer, stop.
I know it's easy
for your mind to wander...
(cymbals clicking)
(muffled): I want you to
really concentrate on me.
I can't escape
the feeling
that this is the crisis
Grandpa warned us about.
You have to dispose
of that waste properly.
Okay, Marge, I will.
You can take
Spider Pig with you.
He's not Spider Pig anymore.
He's Harry Plopper.
(snorts)
(faint cell phone chiming)
(grunts)
Y'ello.
Homer, you got
to get over here.
The health inspector just
shut down the doughnut store
and they're giving
out free doughnuts.
Oh, my God, oh, my God,
oh, my God.
I just got one thing
I got to do first.
Well, you better hurry!
They're going fast.
(gunshot)
Whoa, that was close.
Oh!
(tires screeching)
(grunts)
(gurgling)
(fizzing)
Uh-oh.
(deep voice):
Evil!
Drive, drive, drive!
-(snorting)
-Oh, right.
(tires screeching)
(chittering)
(snarling)
(bubbling)
(growling)
(giggles)
Look at that.
You can see the four states
that border Springfield.
Ohio, Nevada,
Maine and Kentucky.
Oh, yeah.
And if you look real close,
you can almost...
(shrieks)
Well...
this certainly seems odd,
but who am I to question
the work of the Almighty?
Oh... we thank you, Lord,
for this mighty fine
intelligent design.
Good job.
Jabbity-jabbity-jab-jab-jab.
Hey, jab one more eye,
and it's a federal crime.
-Who are you?
-Environmental Protection Agency.
Russ Cargill, head of the E.P.A.,
here to see the president.
(buzzing)
(rapid buzzing)
Mr. President.
Ja.That is me.
Pollution in Springfield
has reached crisis levels.
Oh... I hate this job.
Everything's crisis this
and end of the world that.
Nobody opens with a joke.
I miss Danny DeVito.
You want a joke, huh?
Stop me if you've
heard this one.
-(growling)
-(gasps)
Look at those angry
eyes and giant teeth.
It's like Christmas
at the Kennedy compound.
You know, sir,
when you made me
head of the E.P.A.,
you were applauded
for appointing one of the most
successful men in America
to the least successful
agency in government.
And why did I take the job?
'Cause I'm a rich man who
wanted to give something back.
Not the money, but something.
So here is our chance to kick
some ass for Mother Earth.
I'm listening.
Well, I've narrowed
your choices down
to five
unthinkable options.
Each will
cause untold misery...
I pick number three.
You don't even want
to read them first?
I was elected to lead,
not to read.
Number three!
(low rumbling)
(inhaler whooshing)
(choking)
(rumbling)
(screaming)
(rotors whirring)
(cracking, rumbling)
(gasping):
We're being sealed in a dome.
(yells)
(thuds)
Whoa!
Oh, what do I do?
I don't know what to do.
If I stay I'm trapped,
if I leave I'm alone.
Oh, God!
In, out, in, out...
I never saw Venice.
(helicopter blades whirring)
(crashing)
EPA! EPA!
Trapped forever.
It's all come true.
That crazy old man
in church was right.
(suction popping)
(screaming):
D'oh... ome!
(indistinct murmuring)
(sirens approaching)
(gasping, shrieking)
All right, men,
open fire.
-(gunshots ricocheting)
-Ow!
Who's hurt?
Raise your hands.
(groaning)
Without the attitude.
People, people.
I have an important
announcement.
I have just perfected
an acid-firing superdrill
which can cut through anything.
-That's cool.
-(crowd gasping)
It's right there.
Just outside...
of the dome.
(crowd groaning)
(banging)
What ruthless madmen
could have done this to us?
CARGILL:
The United States government.
(gasping, murmuring)
(static hisses)
My name is Russ Cargill,
and I'm head of the E.P.A.
(indistinct murmuring)
The what?
Environmental Protection Agency.
LENNY:
Come again?
Look, I'm a man on a big TV.
Just listen.
Springfield has become...
MAN:
Whoo! Springfield!
...the most polluted city
in the history of the planet.
KRUSTY:
Drama queen!
To prevent your poisons
from spreading,
your government has sealed you
all within this dome.
(gasping)
Believe me, it's the last thing
we wanted to do.
I do own the company
that makes the dome,
but that's beside the point.
What, are you telling us
we're trapped like rats?
No, rats can't
be trapped this easily.
You're trapped like... carrots.
Wait, wait.
We couldn't be more polluted.
Everyone stopped
dumping in the lake.
Apparently someone
didn't get the message.
Act natural.
(snorts)
Hey, buddy, sooner or later,
people are going to come by
and discover this.
Don't worry about that.
We found a way
to take you off the map.
G.P.A. VOICE:
Coming up on your right...
(beep)
...nothing.
This is Kent Brockman, reporting
to you on a crisis so serious
it has its own name
and theme music.
(dramatic theme playing)
The dome has put an end
to life as we know it.
The town is running low
on supplies of everything
from gasoline to Botox.
Moment, please.
Now, as always--
(chuckles)
we end our news
on the lighter side.
It's the time of year when the
swallows return to Springfield.
(chirping)
(thudding)
(screeching along glass)
(meowing)
(wind rustling trees)
(MARGE sighs deeply)
I think the thing I miss most
is a simple summer breeze.
(gasps)
Maggie?
(sucks pacifier)
(on TV): We've got dome wax,
dome polish, dome freshener,
all your dome needs
at Dome Depot,
located at the intersection
of the 105 Freeway and the dome.
CHORUS:
♪ Dome Depot! ♪
(bell dings)
-Maggie got out! Maggie got out!
-Huh?
Maggie was right there.
Just outside the dome.
Marge, she's right here.
Hmm...?
This dome can
play tricks on you.
You just have to
keep calm and...
Oh, my God!
I'm out of the dome.
Fresh air!
Freedom!
(laughing hysterically)
I'll write you.
Lead good lives.
(HOMER groans)
(MARGE sighs heavily)
(sucks pacifier)
(dramatic news theme
plays on TV)
Good evening,
this is Kent Brockman.
Efforts to find out
whose selfish crime
against the environment
caused our entrapment
have been fruitless...
(chuckles)
...until moments ago.
-(shrieks)
-A shocking discovery
has been made
here at Lake Springfield.
That could be anybody's
pig crap silo.
(shrieks)
(gasps):
Homer!
It was you!
You single-handedly
killed this town.
I know. It's weird.
Just a reminder.
This station does not endorse
vigilante justice.
Unless it gets results--
which it will.
(buzzer sounding)
You didn't listen to me
after I warned you!
Don't worry, nobody watches
this stupid show.
Hmm, what's that ominous glow
in the distance?
(clamoring)
MOB (chanting):
Kill! Kill! Kill! Kill!
Kill! Kill! Kill!
Marge, look, those idiots
don't even know where we live.
Kill! Kill! Kill!
D'oh!
(chanting):
We want Homer!
You monster! You monster!
Uh, did you see the news?
Honey, come on, we
have bigger problems.
But I'm so angry.
You're a woman.
You can hold
on to it forever.
(sniffles)
Okay.
(chanting continues)
Homer, you have to go out there,
face that mob
and apologize for what you did.
I would, but I'm afraid
if I open the door,
they'll take all of you.
CARL: No, we won't!
We just want Homer!
Well, maybe not you,
but they'll kill Grandpa.
GRANDPA:
I'm part of the mob!
Teeny, take out the baby!
(screeches)
(squealing)
(clamoring)
(sweet, romantic theme
playing)
(gasps)
Here, let me get
that for you.
(disappointed sigh)
(rattling)
Stay back, I got a chain saw!
(imitates chain saw revving)
(slowly, weakly making chain saw sounds)
Uh-oh.
(mob shouting)
Bart! Crawl across, hurry!
But if they see you trying to
help us, they'll kill you.
Oh, pshaw! I'm sure your father
would do the same for...
Point taken.
Now hustle your bustles.
Archers!
I'm using a red arrow,
so I know who I kill.
(grunting)
No, Plopper.
If you push that,
daddy will die.
(all screaming)
(grunting)
Hey, my luck's beginning
to turn.
Wait, there's something
I have to get.
(gasps):
Ooh!
(grunts)
What'd you get?
Our wedding video.
We have a wedding video?
KRUSTY:
Torch his gas tank!
We lost 'em!
Yahoo!
(laughing)
BART:
Ooh! Up here!
Get 'em! Get 'em!
HOMER:
Uh, little help?
(HOMER howls)
You know, the word "apology" is
tossed around a lot these days,
but when it comes
from in here...
D'oh!
(HOMER screams)
Mom, what are
we going to do!?
Maggie, not now.
We'll play later.
(gasps)
The sinkhole.
Follow me, kids.
BART:
Geronimo!
LISA:
Sacagawea!
So long, losers.
(thud)
Uh-oh.
The top of his head
is still showing.
Claw at it!
(HOMER shrieking)
NELSON:
Ha-ha!
(crowd exclaiming)
(car alarm wailing)
(deep rumbling)
(crowd screaming)
(clock chiming)
(cuckoos)
Well, they're
China's problem now.
(knocking)
Colin!
(no audio)
I can't hear you!
(marker squeaking)
Oh!
♪ Da, da-da, da-da, da, da... ♪
I never thought my life
would have an absolutely
perfect moment, but this...
(singsongy): Lisa's got a boyfriend
that she'll never see again!
(grunts)
Perfect.
(sirens wailing)
(tires screeching)
What do we do?
Now we run.
I'm afraid we lost them, sir.
Damn it.
Well, then you find them and
you get them back in the dome.
And to make sure
nobody else gets out,
I want roving death squads
around the perimeter 24/7.
I want 10,000 tough guys,
and I want 10,000 soft guys
to make the tough guys
look tougher.
And here's how I want them
arranged:
Tough, tough, soft, tough, soft,
soft, tough, tough,
soft, soft, tough, soft.
Sir, I'm afraid you've
gone mad with power.
Of course I have. Did you ever try
going mad without power?
It's boring.
No one listens to you.
Whew!
(siren wails)
(gasps)
(groaning passionately,
smooching)
Oh...!
(sucks pacifier)
(helicopter blades whirring)
Bart, are you drinking whiskey?
I'm troubled.
Bart!
I promise I'll stop tomorrow.
You'll stop right now.
You come back here,
little man.
(groans)
(drunkenly):
I miss Flanders.
There, I said it.
Where's your father?
He went out.
Let's quickly rebuild
our lives while he's gone.
HOMER (in distance):
Hey, guys...?
What's the secret knock again?
Look, I know
I screwed up.
This is big.
It's huge!
We're homeless!
Our friends
want to kill us.
Before we can even stay
in the same room with you,
I need to know what was
going through your mind
when you didn't
listen to me
and dumped that silo
in the lake.
-(clueless whimper)
-Homer!
I don't know
what to tell you, Marge.
I don't think about things.
I respect people who do,
but I just try
to make the days not hurt
until I get to crawl in
next to you again.
(sweetly): Oh...
(sternly):
I mean, oh.
Look, I'm really sorry.
But I'm more than just sorry.
I'm prepared with a solution.
I've always been afraid
I'd screw up our lives so badly
that we'd need a backup plan.
And that plan is right here.
(chuckles)
No...
Nope.
Bingo.
Bear with me.
Ta... da!
(angelic chorus singing)
Alaska?!
Alaska--
a place where you can't be
too fat or too drunk.
Where no one says things like:
"Let's see your high school
equivalency certificate."
Oh, I don't know, Homie.
Oh, I'm not saying it right.
Look, the thing is, I can't
start a new life alone.
And I've really come
to like you guys.
I just don't see it.
Marge, in every marriage,
you get one chance to say:
"I need you to do this with me."
And there's only one answer
when somebody says that.
Okay, Homie.
I'm with you.
Thank you, my sweetheart.
BART:
Mom?
Yes, honey?
You just bought
another load of crap
from the world's fattest
fertilizer salesman.
You'll pay for ruining
this golden family moment!
Homer!
How are we supposed to get
to Alaska without any money?
All right, Son, if you
don't believe in me,
believe in America.
America, where any man
can make quick money
with no questions asked.
Step right up
and win my truck.
All you have to do is conquer
the Ball of Death.
-What's the catch?
-No catch--
just ride the motorcycle
all the way around just one time.
Three tries for $10.
Marge, how much money
do we have?
-Ten dollars.
-Whoo-hoo!
That counts as a try.
(engine revving)
Ow!
That's two.
(engine revs)
Ow!
And that's three.
Tell you what
I'm going to do--
just 'cause I like
seeing you hurt yourself:
I'll give you one
on the house.
You're the best.
Dad, when you get
to the top,
don't slow down, speed up!
But that's when
it's the scariest!
Just do it!
Ooh! Oh...!
Whoo-hoo!
Yes!
(crowd cheering,
whistling)
Yea, Dad!
I'll take that truck now.
Oh, man.
My wives are going to kill me.
HOMER:
Next stop, Alaska!
Day 37 under the dome.
We are facing intermittent
power failures which...
Okay, very funny.
Now, I'm going to turn
the lights off again.
When they come back on,
I want all my booze
back the way it was.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
I'm very proud
of you, Bart.
Over 24 hours sober.
You are, aren't you?
I'll prove it.
(moaning with pleasure)
Look, we're giving your father
another chance,
and we owe it to him to...
(gasps)
Oh, my God.
Can I help you?
Uh... uh, we need diapers.
Okay...
No, no, we don't.
We don't.
Ladies' razor blades.
Right.
No, no, no,
we don't.
I forgot, we're European.
(giggling)
Uh-huh.
Just give us beef jerky.
Lots and lots of beef jerky.
That's right;
that's what we need.
That's all
we came in for.
Sure.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, my God, there they...
there they are!
(sucks pacifier)
(BART laughing)
(electrical crackling)
(zapping, crackling)
So, you want some of
my electricity, do you?
(snickering)
Well, for once, the rich
white man is in control.
I have two buttons
behind this desk.
One will supply
your town with power,
the other
releases the hounds.
Reach me,
make me your brother.
The hospital's generator
is about to give out.
Lives will be lost!
Lives... lost.
Go on.
We got a convict we were going
to fry tomorrow, but now we can't.
Tempting... tempting.
Look, all our reasons
mean nothing.
Just look into your heart,
and you'll find the answer.
(APU screaming)
BURNS:
First door on the right.
APU:
Thank you.
(all screaming)
(hounds barking)
But this isn't the way
I pictured Alaska at all!
Oh, that's better.
Homer!
(tires screeching,
all screaming)
Well, at least my poster
didn't get torn.
(fingers squeak against glass)
(gasping)
(grand orchestral theme swells)
Welcome to Alaska.
Here's a thousand dollars.
Well, it's about time, but why?
We pay every resident
a thousand dollars
to allow the oil companies
to ravage our state's
natural beauty.
I'm home.
Oh, thanks.
(lush orchestral theme playing)
What are you doing, Bart?
Eh, just passing
the time.
(clap echoing)
(clapping)
Aw. My boy loves Alaska
so much he's applauding it.
Lisa, why aren't
you clapping?
But, Dad...!
Clap for Alaska.
(clapping)
(deep rumbling)
Huh?
(screaming)
(snow crunching)
Well, Marge,
we're separated from the
kids by a wall of snow.
All my dreams
are coming true.
(Disney-style orchestration plays)
(birds singing)
(chorus vocalizing melody)
(fabric tearing)
(birds tweeting)
(whistles)
(screeches)
(fabric tearing)
(orchestration continues)
Day 93 under the dome.
With necessities growing
dangerously low,
who knows what spark
will set off this powder keg.
Okay, let's discuss
Tuesdays with Morrie.
Again?
If we don't get a new book,
I'm going to puke.
You're the five people
I'm going to meet in hell!
(grunting, glass breaking)
We're out of coffee!
(screaming)
I can't take another minute
in this dome!
(yelling)
(shouting, grunting)
Y'ar! Y'ar!
Take that!
Oh, no! Blowback.
(shouting)
(whirring)
Look what they're
doing to our dome.
(grunting)
(trumpeting)
(cracking)
You know what that is, sir?
-A crack?
-Exactly.
First, let me state the problem.
People got out of
the dome before,
they're going
to get out again.
And when they do, there's going
to be hearings, investigations.
(speaking German)
I'll have to go back
to making family comedies.
(sighs)
Don't worry, I have
a solution for you, sir.
In fact, I have
five solutions.
You don't even have to read them.
You'll have deniability.
I'll take care of everything.
You know nothing.
No. I need to know
what I'm approving.
Absolutely.
But on the other hand,
knowing things is overrated.
Anyone can pick something
when they know what it is.
It takes real leadership
to pick something
you're clueless about.
Okay, I pick three.
-Try again.
-One.
-Go higher.
-Five?
-Too high.
-Three?
-You already said three.
-Six?
-There is no six.
-Two?
-Double it.
-Four!
As you wish, sir.
(happy music playing on TV)
(on TV): Are you tired of
the same old Grand Canyon?
Here we are, kids--
the Grand Canyon.
It's so old and boring.
I want a new one.
Now!
Hello. I'm Tom Hanks.
The U.S. government
has lost its credibility,
so it's borrowing
some of mine.
Tousle my hair, Mr. Hanks.
Sure thing, son.
(laughs)
Now, I'm pleased to tell you all
about the new Grand Canyon.
Coming this weekend.
It's east of Shelbyville
and south of Capital City.
That's where Springfield is!
It's nowhere near
where anything is or ever was.
This is Tom Hanks saying
if you're going to pick
a government to trust,
why not this one?
Did you see that?
Yes, they're going
to destroy Springfield!
But we're going to stop them.
Homie, get your clothes on.
Homie?
I'm happy here.
Screw Springfield.
(gasping)
I can't believe
you'd say something so selfish.
Marge, those people chased us
with pitchforks and torches.
Torches!
At 4:00 in the afternoon!
It was 7:00 at night.
It was during
Access Hollywood.
Which is on at 4:00 and 7:00.
D'oh!
Dad, how can you
turn your back
on everyone who loved us?
Flanders helped us when
we were in trouble.
Who cares what Flanders did?
He's not your father.
I wish he was.
You don't mean that.
You worship me.
Oh, yeah?
Look what I did to your picture.
-(gasping)
-Look at it!
Howdilly-doodilly.
-Howdilly-doodilly.
-Why, you little...
(grunting)
I'll strangle-angle you.
Diddily, diddily.
Bart, stop it!
Leave this to me.
Homer...
in every marriage you
get one chance to say
I need you to do this with me.
That is the stupidest thing
I've ever heard.
Homer Simpson!
We're saving Springfield!
Listen to me, all of you.
We are staying.
We have a great life here in Alaska,
and we're never going
back to America again.
I have spoken! Hmm!
(wind whistling)
(tires screeching)
(video game music playing)
(HOMER chuckling)
Well, I guess I've let her
worry about me long enough.
-(whistling)
-(truck horn blows)
Marge? Kids?
Huh?
(static hissing)
Okay, here goes.
Homer...
I've always stood up for you.
When people point out
your flaws, I always say,
"Well, sometimes
you have to stand back
"to appreciate a work of art."
(laughing)
Way back.
Lately, what's
keeping us together
is my ability to overlook
everything you do.
And I overlook these things
because...
Because?
Well, that's the thing.
I just don't know how to finish
that sentence anymore.
So I'm leaving with the kids
to help Springfield,
and we're never coming back.
And to prove to myself
that this is the end...
I taped this
over our wedding video.
Good-bye, Homie.
(static hisses)
♪ Why do birds
suddenly appear ♪
♪ Every time you are near ♪
I love you.
♪ Just like me ♪
-♪ They long to be ♪
-Marge?! Kids?!
♪ Close to you ♪
(cracking)
♪ Why do stars
fall down from the sky ♪
♪ Every time you walk by ♪
♪ Just like me... ♪
(footsteps approaching)
(roaring)
(shouting gibberish)
(grunting)
(yelps)
Huh?
(train whistle blows)
(sniffling)
So, Mom,
what's our plan?
What are you doing up there?
Looking through
people's luggage.
(high-pitched):
I'm the mascot of an evil corporation.
(laughs)
Get down from there.
We have to keep
a low profile
till we get to Seattle
to tell the world
of the plot to
destroy Springfield.
I don't know if you guys
should be talking so loud.
Oh, Lisa, it's not like the government
is listening to everybody's conversation.
(mechanical whirring)
(beeping)
(conversations overlapping)
WOMAN: Hi, I'm calling about
your Meat Lover's Pizza.
I like meat, but I don't know
if I'm ready to love again.
WOMAN 2:
You hang up first.
MAN:
No, you hang up first.
WOMAN 2:
Okay.
(dial tone hums)
MAN:
She hung up on me!
LISA:
But we're fugitives.
We should just lay low
till we get to Seattle.
Hey, everybody! I found one!
The government actually
found someone we're looking for!
Yeah, baby! Yeah!
WOMAN:
Homer Simpson...
...do you know why you are here?
'Cause my family cares
more about other people
than they do about me.
Drink this liquid.
(screaming)
More, please.
Now we will cleanse your spirit
by the ancient Inuit art
of throat singing.
Throat singing?
(guttural chanting)
(both chanting)
How long are we
doing this?
Until you have an epiphany.
Okay.
(chanting)
What's an epiphany?
Sudden realization
of great truth.
Okay.
(chanting)
Aw...
(music plays)
FEMALE CHORUS:
♪ Spider Pig, Spider Pig ♪
♪ Does whatever
a Spider Pig does ♪
-(rumbling)
-♪ Look out ♪
♪ He is a Spider Pig. ♪
Unless you have an epiphany,
you will spend the remainder
of your days alone.
(bell tolls)
Epiphany, epiphany, epiphany.
Ooh! Bananas are an excellent
source of potassium.
(grunts)
Americans will
never embrace soccer?
More than two shakes
and it's playing with yourself?
Hey, what are you doing?
Oh, do whatever
you want to me.
I don't care about
myself anymore.
WOMAN:
Because?
(gasps)
Because other people
are just as important as me.
Without them, I'm nothing.
In order to save myself...
I have to save Springfield!
That's it... isn't it?
(The Simpsons theme playing,
applause and cheering)
(cheering continues)
(chanting)
That was the most incredible
experience of my life.
And now to find my family,
save my town
and drop ten pounds.
Thank you, boob lady.
This is it, kids.
Seattle.
(gasping):
Russ Cargill.
Do you think he saw us?
Yes, I did.
(dogs barking)
Run! Run! Run! Run!
Run! Run!
Jump! Jump!
Land! Land!
Rest! Rest!
Run! Run!
Now, I know we've had
a rough day,
but I'm sure we can
put all that behind us
and just...
(growling, screaming)
Ow! Ow!
That's my whipping arm!
(barking)
Oh, why does everything
I whip leave me?
-(wind whistling)
-Must keep going...
Must keep going.
(whimpering):
No, I can't.
I can't keep going.
Yes, you can.
No, I can't.
Oh, shut up.
You shut up.
No, you. No, you.
No, you.
Oh, real mature.
How can you say that?
Oh, what's the point?
It's hopeless.
Don't give up, Homer.
You are closer
than you think.
But which way do I go?
Much obliged.
(helicopter blades whirring)
(men shouting in distance)
Ten-hut!
(saxophone playing)
Lisa, knock off that racket!
(gasps):
Lisa!
(playing bluesy tune)
They captured my family.
What do I do? What do I do?
(tires screeching)
There's something strange
about that SOP sign.
(engine roaring)
(softly clinks)
(gasps):
Did you hear something?
Probably just a moth.
I hope it's okay.
(screaming):
Oh!
(grunts)
D'oh!
(grunting)
(groans)
(grunts)
Look, look,
look, look, look.
We can't keep stopping
at every SOP, YELD,
or ONE VAY sign--
just move on.
(grunting)
Let us out!
-Let us out!
-Stop that!
You'll scratch your shackles.
I hope I do!
(grunting)
(hissing)
Oh, way to go, Bart.
You stink.
No... you stink.
(moaning)
(grunts)
Ow.
(groans)
(bird caws)
(dog howls in distance)
(MARGE gasps):
Springfield.
I can't believe it, but
it got even crappier.
Oh, man.
(muttering)
(clanking)
Oh, hiya, Midge.
Moe, what happened?
With the town sealed off
from the rest of the world,
things got a little nutty here.
Why are you dressed like that?
Well, I don't
like to brag,
but I am now
the emperor of Springfield.
BARNEY:
No, you're not!
Yes, I am!
(explosion)
BARNEY: Okay...
hail emperor.
CARGILL (over screen):
Attention, Springfield.
Your government has realized
that putting you inside this
dome was a terrible mistake.
Therefore, we're commencing
with Operation Soaring Eagle...
(cheering)
...which involves
killing you all.
(groaning)
(whirring)
As I speak, we're lowering
a small but powerful bomb
into your midst.
(beeping)
(screaming)
Despite everything,
I miss your father.
Me, too.
His big fat ass
could shield us all.
Ten-hut!
At ease.
I'm General...
Marriott Suites,
and I have an urgent
note from the president.
It says to release
this town immediately.
Why is it written on a leaf?
(grunts)
(chuckles)
(hands squeaking)
(grunts)
(gasps)
Perfect.
Now Homer Simpson's going
to show he has cojones!
Oops.
(grunting)
(yells)
(grunting, crying gasps)
(grunts)
(gasping):
D'oh!
(whimpering):
HOMER (in distance):
D'oh! D'oh!
Mom, I've got to go find Colin.
Not now, sweetie.
Doomsday is
family time.
(glass squeaking)
HOMER: Oh! Oh!
(beeping,
harmonica playing blues)
Hey, if one of us
distracts Cargill,
then the rest of us can
climb up that thing.
Who'd be dumb enough to stay behind
while we escape with our lives?
(clears throat)
My time to shine.
Hey!
Mr. Big TV Man,
look-a here.
What do you want?
Um...
look what I can do
with my thumb.
You want to know
how I do it?
Four generations
of inbreeding?
Oh...
(grunting)
(helicopter blades whirring)
(shoes squeaking)
I can smell fresh air.
(birds chirping)
I can hear birds.
I taste freedom!
Excuse me! Watch out!
Coming through!
(yelling)
(loud thud)
(beeping)
(groans quietly)
I was tricked by an idiot!
CLETUS:
Hey, I know how you feel.
I was beat in tic-tac-toe
by a chicken.
Good-bye.
(stammers)
Homer do good?
Actually, you doomed
us all. Again.
Nice knowing you, Homer.
But I... Oh.
(crying):
Oh...
I can't do anything right.
(grunts)
(rapid beeps)
-(steady beeping resumes)
-Get out of here!
(people jeering,
HOMER whimpering)
I've spent my entire life
doing nothing
but collecting comic books,
and now there's only time
to say...
life well spent!
Okay, boys,
when you meet Jesus,
be sure to call him Mr. Christ.
Will Buddha be
there, too?
-No!
-(door creaks)
Hey, Flanders.
Bart!
How good to see ya.
And how terrible you're here.
Thanks.
L-Listen...
I was just wondering if...
before I died,
I could pretend
I had a father who...
cared for me.
Come here, son.
There's always room for one
more in the Flanders clan.
(quiet hissing)
(beep)
Come on,
bomb-disarming robot.
You're our last hope.
Red wire. Blue wire.
Black is usually the ground.
-(groans): Uh, so much pressure.
-(metal rattling)
Pressure!
(gunshot)
He'd been talking about it, but
I-I didn't take him seriously.
♪ ♪
Marge!
Marge! Marge!
(smack, thud)
Oh, no, the epipha-tree!
Hey, I tried my best.
What am I supposed to do?
(wind rushes)
But how am I supposed
to get up there?
(heavenly music plays)
Oh...
Here, buy yourself
something nice.
Homer? What the hell
are you doing now?
HOMER: Risking my life
to save people I hate
for reasons
I don't quite understand.
Got to go.
First, one stop.
(beep)
(tires squealing)
Bart? Son?
Do you think
you could find it in your heart
to give your foolish old man
one more chance?
(mumbling):
Oh, I don't know...
It seems to me, son,
that your father's saying
that he wants to spend
his last minute with you.
No! I can't do it.
I want a father who's
the same in the morning
as he is at
night-- oh...
What's that word?
BOTH:
Consistency.
Thanks, losers.
Sorry, Homer.
I'll let you hold the bomb.
-(beeping)
-The man knows me.
(laughing)
Haaa!
I wish Homer was my father.
And I wish you didn't have
the devil's curly hair.
(crying)
I've been taking
your crap all my life!
(grunting)
Whew! This feels good.
No wonder you do it.
(grunting)
(engine roaring)
Okay, Bart, you've
only got one shot
to throw that bomb
through the hole.
Dad, in case I miss,
I'm sorry I said I wish
you weren't my father.
I don't blame you, Son--
I wasn't much of a father.
Maybe it starts with
the way my dad raised me.
Yes, it's clear to me.
It's just been one long,
unbroken cycle of...
Somebody throw
the goddamn bomb!
(engine revs)
(gasps)
(screaming)
(continues screaming)
D'oh!
(water burbling)
What? What's going on?
(wild cheering)
(thumping)
(anxious stammering)
(relieved sighs)
(loud explosion)
(high-pitched whoosh)
We did it, boy!
Uh, Dad?
(cracking, Homer yelps)
(cracking continues)
(both yelling)
(yells)
♪ ♪
(both screaming)
(screaming continues)
(distant screaming)
(screaming loudly)
(screaming continues)
(HOMER continues screaming)
(yelps)
(grunts)
-Whoo-hoo!
(explosion, shattering)
(excited chatter)
Magnificent!
It's amazing
no one was hurt!
(loud thud)
Bye, everybody.
(dying groan)
(wind whistling)
Now, that was a great
father/son activity.
Hello, Homer.
So, we meet at last,
whoever you are.
There's a couple of things
they don't teach you
at Harvard Business School.
One is how to cope with defeat,
the other is how to handle a shotgun.
I'm going to do both right now.
Wait! If you kill my dad,
you'll never know
where the treasure is buried.
What treasure?
Uh... the treasure
of Ima Wiener.
I'm a wiener?
(both laughing)
Classic.
Well, always leave 'em laughing.
(chuckles)
Good-bye, sir.
(thump)
Maggie!
What a great little accident
you turned out to be.
(sucking)
Colin? Colin!
Lisa... Colin's dead.
(gasps)
But his last words were,
(Irish accent):
"Milhouse, take care of Lisa.
"Hold her hand."
Uh... I got her
all warmed up for ya.
Colin!
Whoo! Hi.
-Hey, you want to go...
-Clean up the lake!
Well, I was gonna say
"get some ice cream," but okay.
(laughs):
Oh! I-I like ice cream.
Kind of sweaty. Sorry.
(loud cheering)
(gasps): Boy,
you survived! How?
I did things no dog should do.
They will haunt me forever.
I love you, too.
(cheering, whistling)
♪ ♪
Best kiss of my life.
Best kiss of your
life so far.
♪ ♪
(electric saw whirring)
HOMER:
Steady...
Uh, Dad?
Thanks, boy.
Steady...
(grunts)
Whoo-hoo!
-Waah...!
-(BART laughing)
(loud thud)
(rock version of
The Simpsons theme playing)
♪ ♪
SMITHERS:
They've taken everything, sir.
Smithers, I don't believe
in suicide, but...
if you'd like to try it,
it might cheer me up to watch.
♪ ♪
♪ Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! ♪
♪ Hey! Hey!
Hey! Hey! ♪
♪ Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! ♪
(to The Simpsons theme):
♪ Da, da, da, da-da, da, da ♪
♪ Da, da-da-da-da ♪
♪ Da-da-da-da-da ♪
(song ends)
This is Tom Hanks saying,
if you see me in person,
please, leave me be.
-♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do... ♪
-♪ Spi... der... Pig... ♪
-♪ Ah, ah... ♪
-♪ Spi... der... Pig ♪
♪ Spider Pig ♪
♪ Spider Pig, Spider Pig ♪
♪ Does whatever
a Spider Pig does ♪
♪ Can he swing from a web? ♪
-♪ Oh, no ♪
-♪ No, he can't ♪
♪ He's a pig ♪
♪ Look out! ♪
♪ He is a Spider Pig ♪
-♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do... ♪
-♪ Spi... der... Pig ♪
♪ Look out! ♪
♪ He is a Spider Pig ♪
♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do... ♪
(song fades out)
♪ ♪
Come on, Dad,
let's go.
I've been holding it since they
put the dome over the town.
You can wait. A lot of people
worked really hard on this film,
and all they ask is for you
to memorize their names.
Well, I want to make sure
no animals were harmed
during the filming of this movie.
-LISA: Phew!
-HOMER: Okay.
-(crunch)
-Ooh, floor popcorn!
(chomping, crunching)
Wait, wait, wait-- it looks like
Maggie has something to say.
Oh, my God,
her first word!
Sequel?
♪ ♪
MAN (to "La Marseillaise"):
♪ Springfield doesn't have an anthem ♪
(others join in): ♪ We thought
we had one, but we don't ♪
(more join in): ♪ We paid
a short guy to write it ♪
♪ But we never saw him again ♪
♪ The tune we stole from the French ♪
♪ There's a few things
they do well ♪
♪ Like making love,
wine, and cheese ♪
♪ Like Roqueforts, Camemberts, and Bries ♪
♪ Springfield ♪
♪ We're going to die ♪
♪ I'm scared to die ♪
♪ ♪
Assistant manager
isn't all it's cracked up to be.
♪ ♪
Four years of film school for this?
(indistinct whispering)
Shh.